Interview celeste horgan (#1012)
writethedocs/www: docs/hiring-guide/community-spotlight/interview-celeste-horgan.rst

Interview with Celeste Horgan
=============================

Celeste is a Canadian technical writer based in Berlin and has been writing documentation related to ecommerce for 4 years.

Key takeaways

> *************

Reviewer: We should keep these titles consistent across each set of posts. I prefer dashes (`---------`) as a 2nd level. Also we should keep a space under the headings to keep them consistent.

    Since then I've worked at a company called Elastic Path, in Vancouver. And now I'm in Berlin at a company called commercetools.

**What was it like searching for jobs outside of Canada?**

    You know what? It was almost comically easy. I kind of just dropped my resume in people's inboxes, using the forms on their
    websites. I wasn't going out of my way to network or anything, and there was a surprising amount of interest. And I was applying
    quite globally. I applied for a few places in the U. S. and got responses. I think technical writing is kind of a funny of job in
    that I think technical writers in organizations often feel very undervalued. But in my last job, and in my current job, I've
    actually done quite a bit of interviewing and quite a bit of hiring. And it's so funny, because you see so many people who just
    don't seem to have a lot of self-confidence or passion. So if you're even a little bit passionate or a little opinionated, or you
    kind of just got something going on, you stand out in an interview so quickly. And people are willing to take you abroad for that,
    which is really cool.

> **What is it like working abroad as a technical writer?**

Reviewer 2: Abroad feels kinda odd to me personally. Would recommend something like "Outside of your home country" or something.

Author: I've made that change. And I like the idea of adding the date, but the index might get a little cluttered with all these dates that are within a few months time span. What do you think about putting a byline underneath the header, and would there be a way to make that text small so it wouldn't look weird?

    Yeah, it's interesting as a writer especially. When you're in North America, in Canada and the United States, the people that you
    work with are native speakers. So when you're having a conversation about ensuring that a sentence communicates the essence of
    what was implemented technically, you are quite literally both speaking the same language. If you as a writer decided to reword
    something using simpler words, maybe using present tense, your subject matter expert or developer that you're working with knows
    enough English to say, "No, that's not what I meant at all." So it's a It's a high level conversation. 
    

>     And commercetools is a verydiverse company. For most of the people that I work with English is not their first language. It might

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    And commercetools is a very diverse company. For most of the people that I work with English is not their first language. It might
```

Spacing.

>     not be their secondlanguage. It's sometimes their third, fourth, or fifth language; because that's how Europe works. So when I

Reviewer: spacing again -- this should be caught in a proof read :/

    work with developers, if they're writing the first draft of something in particular, It takes a lot more work to get it to the
    state that I would be comfortable releasing it in. And I have to be a lot more forward in how I speak to and question about a
    feature, because I know that they might not be able to correct me if I misinterpret something that they say. So there's a lot more

>     responsibility on me  on. And I would actually say for anybody else that's looking to move abroad that there's a lot of demand,

Reviewer: This is not proper grammar and also has spacing issues (2 spaces)

    particularly in Berlin. It's not a bad place to be a technical writer, because there's extra value on you. You're not only a
    technical writer, not only the person taking care of documentation that developers don't want to write; you're the person doing

>     that with the authoritativevoice of a native English speaker.

Reviewer: spacing again.

**What advice would you give to new or aspiring tech writers in the community?**

    The thing that I would say to a new writer in the community or to any new writer in general is to not to ignore your tech stack
    and your user experience. I meet a lot of writers when I'm interviewing, and all they want to do is write documentation. And I
    admire that focus. That's not me. That is not how I approach my job. And I admire people who just want to sit down and write, and
    they're super happy about it. But I think documentation is so overlooked in so many companies. It is low priority for a lot of
    product teams. It's not something a lot of people like to do. But it is a really key component of a developer's or a customer's

>     experience with the product, because they come to it when they're stuck. They come to it when they're at the low point in their

Reviewer: This should probably be a paragraph break to make it a bit easier to read

    journey with the product, and it's your job to take them higher. And it's not just the content that matters in that regards. It's
    also how people perceive things visually that has an effect on how they feel about things. So as much as we would like to believe
    that good content saves the day every single time, we have in our minds an idea of what a professional looking layout looks like.
    And if you're displaying your documentation on something that isn't a professional looking layout, that changes people's
    perception of what they're reading. It changes the emotions around it. And they may not take what you're writing as seriously. 

>     And I would say don't ignore the tech stack, because if you want to foster collaboration, you need to have a tech stack that other

Reviewer: There's a ton of `And`'s in this copy (almost 50!) -- we should edit these out.

Author: I've fixed it up, and I think it reads better. Let me know if I should do a harder edit.
